V2.13 (#335)
run-ai/docs: docs/admin/integration/spark.md

# Running SPARK jobs with Run:AI

Spark has two modes for running jobs on kubernetes:

* Using a CLI tool called `spark-submit` that submits raw pods.
* CRD with operator.

## CLI `Spark-submit`

To run a Spark job on Kubernetes using the CLI:

1. Download a pre-built spark with hadoop image from [here](https://spark.apache.org/downloads.html).
2. Open the file, then go to its root to submit the jobs.

### Cluster preparation

Ensure that your Kubernetes cluster has a service account with permissions in the namespace that you want to run the jobs in. Use the following commands to launch the Spark demo:

```
k create ns spark-demo

k create serviceaccount spark -n spark-demo

k create clusterrolebinding spark-role --clusterrole edit --serviceaccount spark-demo:spark -n spark-demo
```

Change the namespace to `<your_K8s_Namespace>`.

### Docker Images

We need to build docker images and push them to either a public repository or load them to kind.

To build the images run:

```

> ./bin/docker-image-tool.sh -t <image_name> build
> ```
> 
> An image named `<image_name` will be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
./bin/docker-image-tool.sh -t <image_tag> build
```

An image named `spark:<image_tag>` will be created.
```

> Then load it into your kind cluster:
> 
> ```
> kind load docker-image spark:<image_name> --name \<CLUSTER\_NAME\>
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then push the docker image to your repository:

```
docker tag spark:<image_tag> <MY_REPO>/spark:<image_tag>
docker push <MY_REPO>/spark:<image_tag>
```
```

Author: Did you want me to add the 
```
docker tag spark:<image_tag> <MY_REPO>/spark:<image_tag>
docker push <MY_REPO>/spark:<image_tag>
```
to the file? If so then where?

--conf spark.kubernetes.namespace=runai-team-a \

--conf spark.kubernetes.scheduler.name=runai-scheduler \

--conf spark.kubernetes.driver.label.runai/queue=team-a \

--conf spark.kubernetes.executor.label.runai/queue=team-a \
```

To schedule the executors on GPUs, add the following flags:

```
--conf spark.executor.resource.gpu.amount=1 \

--conf spark.executor.resource.gpu.vendor=nvidia.com \

--conf spark.executor.resource.gpu.discoveryScript=/opt/spark/examples/src/main/scripts/getGpusResources.sh \
```

### Spark Pods

The created pods have several labels that unite them into pod groups. Ensure that the `driver` pod is the owner of the others.

example executor pod metadata:

labels:

```
runai/queue: team-a

spark-app-name: spark-pi

spark-app-selector: spark-77204fbefcd04f1bb63816fcf9528cf1

spark-exec-id: "1"

spark-exec-resourceprofile-id: "0"

spark-role: executor

spark-version: 3.4.0

name: spark-pi-e86f4788619be7a1-exec-1

namespace: runai-team-a

ownerReferences:

- apiVersion: v1

controller: true

kind: Pod

name: spark-pi-f4445788619bd784-driver

uid: 951d5bdb-cea8-41e8-998b-9c6fb6dff846

![Shape1](RackMultipart20230620-1-fcrkwu_html_932f45e5bf08d98e.gif)
```

> The driver has a set amount of jobs to distribute, and will use any available executors to finish them. So, if only two executors are running and 6 jobs are available each one will execute 3 jobs.

Reviewer: lets remove this part, it was only meant for internal use to understand how to identify spark pods.

Author: ok.
